---
tags: scala scalaz
---

Scala is an object oriented language with functional aspects. Some people
like the object oriented aspect, some are attracted by the functional part.
Add to that the fact that it's sitting on top of JVM and of course it's
influenced by Java a lot, we still have nulls, we still have exceptions,
IO and state mutation, etc. And since Scala isn't purely functional it still
allows us to write imperative code, call a Java library that will throw an
exception, etc. I personally think that functional code is easier to read and 
understand, unit test and maintain(not event talking about state and multiple
threads). So when it comes to writing purely functional code (or as close to it
as possible) Scala sure misses certain things and scalaz has a lot built to
help. I decided to write series or posts to explain scalaz. I'll start with the
basics, most common abstractions then explain more real words cases.
I'll put the links to all posts here so it's easy to navigate.

<!--more-->

* [Semigroup, Monoid, Equal, Order, Enum, Show and Standard Scala Classes]({% post_url 2015-07-06-scalaz-semigroup-monoid-equal-order-enum-show-and-standard-scala-classes %})
* [Methods Scalaz Adds To Standard Classes - Integer, String and Boolean]({% post_url 2015-07-13-scalaz-methods-scalaz-adds-to-standard-classes-integer-string-boolean %})
* [Scalaz Functor]({% post_url 2015-07-15-scalaz-functor %})
* [Scalaz Apply]({% post_url 2015-07-19-scalaz-apply %})
* [Scalaz Applicative]({% post_url 2015-09-24-scalaz-applicative %})
* [Scalaz Bind]({% post_url 2016-06-04-scalaz-bind %})
* [Scalaz Cobind]({% post_url 2016-06-04-scalaz-cobind %})
* [Scalaz Monad]({% post_url 2016-06-04-scalaz-monad %})
* [Scalaz Comonad]({% post_url 2016-06-04-scalaz-comonad %})
* [Scalaz Plus, PlusEmpty, IsEmpty, ApplicativePlus and MonadPlus]({% post_url 2016-06-04-scalaz-plus-plusempty-isempty-applicativeplus-monadplus %})
* [Scalaz Foldable]({% post_url 2016-06-04-scalaz-foldable %})
